gh-95235: Add explicit parameter list to some sqlite3 methods (#95240)
python/cpython: Doc/library/sqlite3.rst

       Can be ``"DEFERRED"`` (default), ``"EXCLUSIVE"`` or ``"IMMEDIATE"``;
       or :const:`None` to disable opening transactions implicitly.
       See :ref:`sqlite3-controlling-transactions` for more.

>    :type isolation_level: str | :const:`None`

Author: I took the liberty to also fix this.

Reviewer: For whatever reason it appears Sphinx auto-links bulitin types but not builtin constants, I see.

   .. method:: blobopen(table, column, row, /, *, readonly=False, name="main")

      Open a :class:`Blob` handle to an existing
      :abbr:`BLOB (Binary Large OBject)`.

      :param table:
          The name of the table where the blob is located.
      :type table: str

      :param column:
          The name of the column where the blob is located.
      :type column: str

      :param row:
          The name of the row where the blob is located.
      :type row: str

      :param readonly:
          Set to :const:`True` if the blob should be opened without write
          permissions.
          Defaults to :const:`False`.
      :type readonly: bool

      :param name:
          The name of the database where the blob is located.
          Defaults to ``"main"``.
      :type name: str

      :rtype: sqlite3.Blob

      Trying to open a blob in a ``WITHOUT ROWID`` table will raise

>       :exc:`OperationalError`.

Reviewer: You can do

```suggestion
      :raises OperationalError:
          When trying to open a blob in a ``WITHOUT ROWID`` table.

      :rtype: sqlite3.Blob
```

Author: Oh, neat! TIL

   .. method:: create_function(name, narg, func, *, deterministic=False)

>       Create a user-defined SQL function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Create or remove a user-defined SQL function.
```

If I understand the ``func`` param correctly, this can also remove existing functions? If so, this should be clarified.

Author: Yes, I guess it's best to be explicit about these things.

      :param name:

>           The name of the SQL function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The name of the SQL function to create or remove.
```

Somewhat clearer as to what specifically this name is for (assuming I understand it correctly)?

Author: I don't think we need to say this again here. Mentioning it in the description should suffice. I prefer to keep the param info to the point.

      :type name: str

      :param narg:

>           The number of parameters the SQL function can accept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The number of arguments the SQL function can accept.
```

Since we're talking about _accepting_ here, this should be "arguments", not [formal] parameters, no? Also, is consistent with the nomenclature in the next line.

Author: Yes, that's better; thanks.

          If ``-1``, it may take any number of arguments.
      :type narg: int

      :param func:
          A callable that is called when the SQL function is invoked.
          The callable must return :ref:`a type natively supported by SQLite
          <sqlite3-types>`.

>           Set to :const:`None` to remove the SQL function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Set to :const:`None` to remove an existing SQL function.
```

A little clearer, if I understand this correctly? Otherwise, not exactly sure what `None` does...

>       :type func: :term:`callback` | :const:`None`

Author: I'm not sure if using `:term:callback` is the best reference here. Ideally, there should be a `:term:callable`.

Reviewer: Agreed; there is the [callable builtin](https://docs.python.org/3.12/library/functions.html?highlight=callable#callable) and [`__call__` in the data model](https://docs.python.org/3/reference/datamodel.html#object.__call__), but nothing that actually explicitly defines what a callable _is_, despite that term being used frequently and being the natural superset of functions, methods, class constructors, or other things with a `__call__` method.

Author: I suggest we add a `:term:` for callable first; then we can pull in `main` and continue with this PR.

Author: OTOH, we can just land this and update the docs once there is a `:term:` for callable.

      :param deterministic:
          If :const:`True`, the created SQL function is marked as
          `deterministic <https://sqlite.org/deterministic.html>`_,
          which allows SQLite to perform additional optimizations.

>           This flag is supported by SQLite 3.8.3 or higher,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          This flag is supported by SQLite 3.8.3 or higher;
```

Fix comma splice

>           :exc:`NotSupportedError` will be raised if used with older versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          :exc:`NotSupportedError` will be raised if used with older versions.
```

Maybe make this a `:raises:` clause too?

Author: Maybe not, since it is directly related to the `deterministic` parameter?

Reviewer: I was thinking maybe still mention it here and also in a raises clause, but I don't have a strong opinion; whatever you think is best.

Author: I'll sleep on it :)

Author: See 6d1aeab5e4

      :type deterministic: bool

      .. versionchanged:: 3.8

>          The *deterministic* parameter was added.

Reviewer: Maybe use this instead, to be a little more succient?

```suggestion
      .. versionadded:: 3.8
         The *deterministic* parameter.
```

Author: Definitely. I'm fine with including this in the PR.

   .. method:: create_aggregate(name, /, n_arg, aggregate_class)

>       Create a user-defined SQL aggregate function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Create or remove a user-defined SQL aggregate function.
```

Likewise, as I understand it from the param descriptions, this can also remove existing functions?

      :param name:

>           The name of the SQL aggregate function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The name of the SQL aggregate function to create or remove.
```

More clear what this is used for

Author: As above; I prefer to keep it to the point.

      :type name: str

      :param n_arg:

>           The number of parameters the SQL aggregate function can accept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The number of arguments the SQL aggregate function can accept.
```

Likewise

          If ``-1``, it may take any number of arguments.

>       :type na_rg: int

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :type n_arg: int
```

Fix typo

      :param aggregate_class:

>           A class that implements the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          A class must implement the following methods:
```

A bit more clear that both methods are mandatory?

          * ``step()``: Add a row to the aggregate.
          * ``finalize()``: Return the final result of the aggregate as
            :ref:`a type natively supported by SQLite <sqlite3-types>`.

>           The ``step()`` method accept *n_arg* number of parameters,
>           unless *n_arg* is ``-1``,
>           in which case it may take any number of arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The number of arguments that the ``step()`` method must accept
          is controlled by *n_arg*.
```

Instead of repeating the same information here, I'd suggest just deferring to the description of that parameter. Also, fix grammar error (plural agreement, "method accept") and  parameters -> arguments.

>           Set to :const:`None` to remove the SQL aggregate function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Set to :const:`None` to remove an existing SQL aggregate function.
```

Likewise

   .. method:: create_window_function(name, num_params, aggregate_class, /)

>       Create a user-defined aggregate window function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Create or remove a user-defined aggregate window function.
```

Likewise

      :param name:

>           The name of the SQL aggregate window function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The name of the SQL aggregate window function to create or remove.
```

      :type name: str

      :param num_params:

>           The number of parameters the SQL aggregate window function can accept.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The number of arguments the SQL aggregate window function can accept.
```

          If ``-1``, it may take any number of arguments.
      :type num_params: int

      :param aggregate_class:

>           A class that implements the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          A class that must implement the following methods:
```

Maybe a little more explicit?

          * ``step()``: Add a row to the current window.
          * ``value()``: Return the current value of the aggregate.
          * ``inverse()``: Remove a row from the current window.
          * ``finalize()``: Return the final result of the aggregate as
            :ref:`a type natively supported by SQLite <sqlite3-types>`.

>           The ``step()`` and ``value()`` methods accept *num_params* number of
>           parameters, unless *num_params* is ``-1``,
>           in which case they may take any number of arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The number of arguments that the ``step()`` and ``value()`` methods
          must accept is controlled by *num_params*.
```

Like above, avoid duplicating information?

>           Set to :const:`None` to remove the SQL aggregate window function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          Set to :const:`None` to remove an existing SQL aggregate window function.
```

As above

>       :type aggregate_class: :term:`class` | :const:`None`
> 
>       Aggregate window functions are supported by SQLite 3.25.0 and higher.
>       :exc:`NotSupportedError` will be raised if used with older versions.

Reviewer: What about

```suggestion
      :raises NotSupportedError:
          If used with a version of SQLite older than 3.25.0,
          which does not support aggregate window functions.

      :type aggregate_class: :term:`class` | :const:`None`
```

   .. method:: backup(target, *, pages=-1, progress=None, name="main", sleep=0.250)

>       Create a backup of an SQLite database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Create a backup of an SQLite database.
      
      Works even if the database is being accessed by other clients
      or concurrently by the same connection.
```

Maybe worth still including this detail?

      :param target:
          The database connection to save the backup to.

>       :type target: sqlite3.Connection

Reviewer: I believe you _could_ also do

```suggestion
      :type target: Connection
```

if you wanted

      :param pages:

>           If equal to or less than ``0``,
>           the entire database is copied in a single step;
>           otherwise the backup is performed *pages* pages at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The number of pages to copy at a time.
          If equal to or less than ``0``,
          the entire database is copied in a single step.
```

Clearer and cleaner to frame this in terms of the primary behavior of the parameter, no?

          Defaults to ``-1``.
      :type pages: int

      :param progress:

>           If set to a callable, it is invoked with three integer argument for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          If set to a callable, it is invoked with three integer arguments for
```

Grammar (plural agreement)

          every backup iteration:
          the *status* of the last iteration,
          the *remaining* number of pages still to be copied,
          and the *total* number of pages.
          Defaults to :const:`None`.
      :type progress: :term:`callback` | :const:`None`

      :param name:

>           The name of the database to backup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The name of the database to back up.
```

backup = noun, back up = verb

          Either ``"main"`` (the default) for the main database,
          ``"temp"`` for the temporary database,
          or the name of a custom database as attached using the
          ``ATTACH DATABASE`` SQL statment.
      :type name: str

      :param sleep:

>           The number of seconds to sleep between successive attempts to backup
>           remaining pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          The number of seconds to sleep between successive attempts
          to back up remaining pages.
```

As above

>       :type sleep: int | float

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :type sleep: float
```

Since at least to static typing, an int is a subclass of a float, maybe it makes sense to just put `float` here?
